All right.
So in this lesson we're gonna do a couple of things.
We're gonna be plotting our gradient descent path on our 3D surface so we can see our algorithm slowly
working its way down to the bottom of the bowl.
But this is also a really good opportunity to learn a little bit more about num pies and dimensional
arrays because these things are incredibly powerful and we're gonna be taking a look at how can append
values to arrays how we can concatenate arrays how we can slice arrays and how we can select particular
columns of an array Let's commemorate the upcoming topics with a new section heading.
So when to change the cell to markdown and then I'm going to put two pound symbols here and then I'll
write graphing 3D gradient descent and advanced num pi arrays and I'll hit shift into.
I'm also going to add a few more cells to the bottom so that way I'm working more in the center of the
screen now to do our plotting what we're going to do is we're gonna scroll a little bit up and we're
going to copy this cell here copy the cell and I'm going to paste this cell here.
And the reason I'm doing this is so that I can add some code to it.
I want to modify the cells so we have a record of what we've been doing but this is also the cell which
is gonna contain the code that tracks the progress of our gradient descent.
So I'm going to add some code to this now as before the values that we're gonna be tracking are how
are our parameters change as the loop runs and the police are going to store all these values that we're
gonna be tracking who's going to be a variable that I'm going to call values on the score array and
the very first value this values array is going to have is going to consist of our initial guests our
parameters.
So leaving the code like this.
Let's take a really quick look at the shape of our values array.
So I'm going to print the values underscore array dot shape and see what I get.
The result is gonna be the very first line that's printed below the cell so I can see that this is a
tuple and my array just consists of two elements and that's no surprise those elements are gonna be
one point eight and one point zero.
And that's all this shape attribute is showing us now the thing is I can transform this array if I want
to instead of having a one dimensional array with two elements I can have a two dimensional array with
one element each instead.
But why would I want two dimensions.
Well what I want to do is I want to keep all the x values in one dimension and then I want to keep all
the y values in the second dimension.
So what I want to do is I want to transform my array into a new shape so handily there is something
called a reshape method which takes two inputs.
One is the number of rows and the other is the number of columns.
So Rosa first so it's gonna be one comma two.
Those are gonna be the arguments to the reshape method.
Now if I rerun the cell have a look at the output below the cell to see how many rows and how many columns
my array has now.
So you should see this updated to 1 comma 2s one wrote two columns I now have a two dimensional array
my x value is gonna be in my first dimension and my y value is going to be in my second dimension.
Okay yeah.
So you might say yeah Phillip great preamble but where are you going with this.
And what I would say to that is I'm setting the scene for the code I'm going to add to my for loop right
here.
But before I do that and move on to the code inside the gradient descent let me add a new cell below
this one and just go through a few methods and a few techniques for working with multi-dimensional arrays.
So I'm going to add a little comment here and recall this advanced num pi array practice.
And the first thing I want to do of course is create a dummy array.
This array is going to have a name.
It's going to be called Cook and it's going to be equal to N Piedmont arrays or creating an array parentheses.
And then I want this array to have one row and two columns.
So I'm going to have one square bracket and then a second square bracket and inside I'm going to put
a string.
I want to see Captain and then comma and then then we'll have another string and that's gonna read guitar.
So two strings surrounded by two square brackets.
So just to verify that we indeed have a two dimensional array.
Let's print out Kirk don't shape below the cell and had shift into there we see that we need we have
one row and two columns by using this notation here.
All right.
So upwards and onwards this time we're gonna create a two by two array.
So this is gonna be two rows two columns.
And I want to call this array H S under school band and we've said it's equal to and p dot array parentheses.
And then I'm going to add two square brackets again and inside the second square bracket I'm going to
add a string and call it black space fault.
And then after the string and when I had a comma and then another string and C and then after that first
closing square bracket I mean I add another comma and then I'm going to open another square bracket.
Now the string Quest Love comma and then the string drums and then you'll have two square brackets at
the end and the parentheses.
So this is our second array and let's print out the shape print H.S. on a school band don't shape and
here we can see that indeed this array is two by two two rows two columns.
Now when working with multi-dimensional arrays like this let me ask your question.
How do you think we would go about selecting a particular item in the array so previously we just used
the square bracket notation and then we supplied an index.
Let's see what happens when we do that on a two dimensional array.
So I say print and I'll just put down in the string the code I'm going to add after the string.
So when I say H.S. on a school band square bracket zero.
And then after the string of comma and then put the actual Python code here H.S. band square bracket
0 might shift and here so we can see here that if I use the very very same approach with a two dimensional
array for selecting a particular item as with a one dimensional array I don't get back one item.
Instead I'm getting back an entire row I'm getting back all the elements in that first row but the thing
is that kind of makes sense right.
We have two dimensions so we shouldn't be supplying one index.
We should be supplying two indices.
How do we do that.
Let me just copy this line of Python code here.
And a print statement.
Paste the print statement below.
And then instead of having just hate this underscore band square brackets zero.
I'm going to add another pair of square brackets here and between those I'm going to put the value 1
and add that to my string as well so that we're consistent and I'm going to hit shift enter and what
you should see is that in this case we're selecting one particular element we're selecting the first
row and then the first column in that row.
So we're honing in on the string and see if you have trouble seeing this in your print statements then
you can put a few spaces here and a semicolon might make it a little easier and then you'll have a nice
separation between the the string and the value that you're getting back with your python code.
All right.
So this was a really one difference between working with a one dimensional array and a two dimensional
array.
Now has a challenge.
Can you modify this print statement to select the word Quest Love and have that printed out right here
what says M.C. currently.
I'll give you a few seconds to pause the video and give this a shot so I hope you had a chance to solve
this quest.
Love is in the second row.
So we start counting and zero.
Second row is at index 1 and it is the first item in the second row.
So first column.
So this would be column zero.
Let me shift to prove to you that this is indeed the case.
And there we go.
We see Quest Love printed out below.
Now let's create another array but throw a different way.
I'm going to call this array.
The underscore roots I want to set it equal to end p dot append.
So I'm not going to write and p dot arraignment or write and put out append.
I'm gonna open the parentheses and inside these parentheses I must supply three arguments three inputs
the first argument is gonna be the array I want to append items to this is gonna be a R R equals H S
on a score banned comma and supply my second argument and these are gonna be the values so when I write
values equals Kirk and then I supply the third argument and this is going to be the axis axis is gonna
be equal to zero and below all this I went out of print statements so say print the underscore roots.
Now before I hit shift enter to make sure my variable names are the same.
So.
So this is gonna be the roots is equal to N.P. dot append a R R equals H S ON A got banned comma values
equals Kirk comma access equals zero and then I am indeed printing this variable here printing the roots.
Now let me shift and as you can see what this looks like now what we've got is that below the cell there
are six elements being printed out.
We've got the four elements from HS band and we've appended two extra elements namely captain and guitar
to these four elements.
So our array called The Roots is actually three by two.
It's a three by two array.
Now let's take a look at this append method the append method takes three arguments.
The first one is while the the element where the items are going to be appended to.
And the second argument here is our array which was appended to h s underscore band and then it got
this third argument here.
Axis axis equals zero and the first time I saw this I thought man this is a really confusing word but
it's actually pretty simple access basically means should we add our values as a row.
Or should we add them as a column.
So what we've done is we said access equals zero.
And that means that our values inside Kirk are added as a row on to are two by two arrays are two by
two array became a three by two array.
If access instead was equal to one then we would be trying to add our new values as a column.
But you have to be careful with these axes if you try to change this to one and press shift enter and
actually won't work because Kirk is actually a 1 by 2 array and not a 2 by one array.
So you have to be careful because your axes have to match you can't add up or append items to arrays
where the dimensions don't match.
Kirk has one row two columns and you can't add a one road two columns as columns to a two by two.
If you actually wanted to do that you'd have to reshape the Kirk array to be two by one.
This is the only way it would work.
In this case you would indeed get a two by three matrix a two by three array.
So I hope this makes sense if you're appending stuff to an existing array then the shapes of the array
have to be compatible.
So in this case what I actually want to do is I want to add rows on to my existing array so messy ax
is equal to zero.
And the way I've made these arrays the rows already match.
So my head shift enter again.
So you refresh this and you can see indeed.
Okay I've got an artist and I've got a role in the band and here's another artist and here's another
role in the band.
And so on now I'm not gonna make you add all the band members of the roots individually that would be
very very time consuming but um let's just pretend this band has three members for now.
And suppose that we want to select all the band members just by their nicknames.
So we want to just take an entire column from this array.
How would we do that.
And the answer is that this is actually really really really easy to do with some special Python notation
for slicing arrays.
Let me show you.
If I print out uh add a string here printing nicknames dot dot dot comma and here's how we slice our
array.
Here's how we only print out the first column.
We're gonna say the underscore roots square brackets when it's applied to values.
The first one is gonna be a column and I'm going to have a comma and then we're to have a zero.
So what we're seeing here is take all the roads so a colon is the shorthand notation here for selecting
all the roads.
All the values in the rows and that second argument here that zero refers to the first column.
Let me hit shift and to show you what I mean.
I'm going to scroll down and there you should see printing nicknames Blackthorn Quest Love and captain
all right.
So let's practice this one more time.
I'm going to add another band member though some will say the underscore roots and an update I'm going
to update our roots array with NPR dot append and for the array I'm going to choose the underscore roots
and for the values I'm gonna say.
Values is equal to double square brackets.
So I'm going to add the values here directly and then between those square brackets I'm going to provide
two strings.
The first one is gonna say Malik.
Space B and then comma single quotes and c closing square brackets comma axis again is equal to zero.
Having added another band member here let's print out the roles some sex some let's say printing.
Band rolls dot dot dot.
And then after the string put a comma.
And now I'm going to throw the ball over into your court.
I'm going to challenge you to print out all the band rolls in the roots.
So I'm going to give you a few seconds to pause the video and write the python code that will print
out all the band members rolls below the cell.
And here's the solution.
Again we're gonna use our array slicing notation so I'm to see the score roots square brackets.
Colon comma 1 when I had shift enter.
I can see now that we've got two emcees one set of drums and one guitar all right.
So with these array techniques covered we're ready to move on to graphing our gradient descent hand.
If you haven't heard of the roots then check out our song of theirs called the next movement.
That's one of my personal favorites a long time ago.
I actually went to see these guys live.
They came down to London and I think one of the things that impressed me most was that during the performance
the band members traded the instruments.
So like the drummer took the guitar and the guitarist took the vocals and the vocalist took the bass
and so on.
And having done that they proceeded to play their next song just showing everyone in the audience that
they weren't one trick ponies but actual musicians who could do more than than one thing.
I mean I haven't gone to that many concerts but I've never seen that before.
So yeah check out these guys.
They're pretty cool.